Okay,
guys.
And welcome back.
And then we're gonna have a look at the most widely used workbook event function,
and that is the workbook open.
Now I use workbook open and the particular piece of code that we're about to look at on
anything that is mission critical because occasionally work sheets can corrupt and become
unusable.
And this gets around that problem.
So every time I have something mission critical,
the very first thing I do is add this to the workbook open function.
And here's the code that I use.
What we have here are four variables.
We have one that's called my backup folder on that holds the past to the backup folder.
I'll explain these have to go through it.
I have the might save file name,
and that is going to be a fall them that we're going to build dynamically at runtime.
I have a variable called my Date,
where we're gonna hold the date stamp on the variable called My Time,
which is going to hold the time stamp.
Now I have conveniently created this folder here,
which is called Backups on.
I'll show you how to read the past to that in just a second.
So what we have is my date on my date is a string that is built by looking at now.
Now,
if I just had an X up here on say equals now open brackets,
close brackets and just execute over that.
You can see that X holds the current system date on the current system.
Time.
Now what I want to extract from that particular string.
The now shrinking I want to go.
Seven cats is across on.
I want to extract four digits.
So that is going to give me the year.
I want to move across four characters and extract two digits,
and that is going to give me the month.
Then for the last one.
I want to use the no function and I want to return the to left most characters and then I
want a space at the end.
Okay,
So long does hit start hung and delete that on.
Then when we execute over that code,
Whoops a daisy.
Let's just hit f eight.
We can see that my days has never been returned as 2016 08 20 Which just happens to be
today's date now What we're gonna do is we're gonna stick that way up the front of air file
name.
So that way,
whenever we have to go into our backup fall that the latest version is always going to
appear at the top.
Now,
obviously,
we may have more than one of save or more than one workbook open event in any particular
day.
So for that reason,
I also use a my time.
No way using the time function.
And it's basically exactly the same thing that we've just done with this,
but with time.
So when they hit F eight,
we can see that the time is 11.
44 on.
They also add a space death dash space.
So that way we get the data front,
the time space dash space,
and then I just use the name off the current file.
Okay,
so I'm just gonna hit stop for a second.
This is a bit we're up to my backup folder,
which we've declared up here and said holds the past to the backup folder,
and this is where my backup folder lives.
Now,
if I come back to the backup folder,
the easiest way to get that is just a click in here.
Hit control and copy on that.
Says you just navigate your folder.
Click in the address bar on copy whenever it stays in there.
The only thing that you have to note is that the must be a slash at the end of your path.
The reason when you copy it from the address bar.
So just make sure you add this slash in there and here I'm going to build the file,
set the safe file name.
So I'm gonna have my date on my time on do whatever the current name of this workbook is.
And then here is where we save a copy.
This workbook don't save copy as file name equals.
Have to specify away.
It's going to go which has been read from this variable on.
I have to call it something which has been built from this string just here.
So I am just gonna close that I'm gonna close this file.
Do we want to save?
Yes,
I do notice that there is absolutely nothing in my backup folder here,
so I'm just going to reopen the file on any second now that will reopen.
And now I'm never going to navigate back to my backups.
And you will see here that we now have a new backup called 2016 08 2011 45.
Which is the point at which I open the file on day.
It's called workbook events,
which is exactly what this particular workbook is called.
Okay,
so that's how I use the workbook open.
Let me just navigate back to excel on Dalton after 11.
Where's it going?
There is.
So that's how I use the workbook open.
You can.
If you're particularly cautious,
you could also add exactly the same code to the workbook.
Close on.
That would make sure that everything is created as a backup before the workbook is closed.
Okay,
I'll see you in the next lesson where we're gonna have a look at using the word book.
Oak broom routine the game,
But this time to display a splash screen.
Okay,
I'll see you in the next lecture.